---
layout: post
title: Working with GitHub
---

I've been working for over 15 years with the Microsoft source control solution, now known as **Azure DevOps** but formerly TFS, and formerly VSTS, and formerly Visual Studio Sorce Safe. Everytime they change the name, they also added new features and the way it worked, evolving from a simple source control tool to cover the whole development cycle. I was (am) very happy with it, but then Microsoft bought **GitHub** and adopted Git to replace VSTS. It made me give a look to Git and GitHub (later I found out they're not the same) and after struggling to understand their concepts (breaking my paradigms) I ended loving it.

I learned why **GitHub** became the most important open source repository. But I didn't take it serious for any other kind of projects. But the changes Microsoft did made it more

Now I'm using both. **GitHub** for my personal projects or for open source repositories (and documentation like this blog itself [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/))

Even though **GitHub** integrates with Microsoft Visual Studio (Code and VS 2019) and it makes it easy to work with it, there are some tasks where you still need (or feel more comfortable with) trough the command line. This article resumes the steps for the most common tasks with GitHub:

- [Create a new repository](#new-repository)
- [Clone the repository](#clone-repository)
- [Store credentials](#store-credentials) (to connect to GitHub)
- [Add files to the repository](#add-files)
- [Commit changes](#commit-changes)
- Push changes
- Fetch changes
- Pull changes
- Working with branches
- Forking

# Create a new repository {#new-repository}

## Private or public repository

# Clone the repository {#clone-repository}

# Store credentials {#store-credentials}

Most documentation I've found to store credentials to connect to the remote repository (GitHub or AzureDevOps) are based on using SSH keys, instead of user/password. Then I've this cool article on how to do it: https://www.shellhacks.com/git-config-username-password-store-credentials/

The following is a resume for the most important tasks:

- If you didn't cloned the repository already:

  ```
  $ git clone https://**USERNAME**:**PASSWORD**@github.com/*path/to/repo*.git
  ```

- If you've already cloned the repository:

  ```
  $ git remote set-url origin https://**USERNAME**:**PASSWORD**@github.com/*path/to/repo*.git
  ```

- To store the credentials in the local repository:

  ```
  $ git config credential.helper store
  ```

- To store the credentials globally:

  ```
  $ git config --global credential.helper store
  ```

-
